docs/pages/user_guide.rst, before:

.. This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
   License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
   file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

User Guide
==========

Welcome to the ``IAR-vsc`` user guide!

This guide will take you through all the features the ``IAR-vsc`` plugin provides to enhance your workflow with ``IAR`` using the power of Visual Studio Code.
If you just want to get going, take a look at the Quickstart below.

Quickstart
----------

* Configure the following items:

    * ``IAR: Select Workbench``
    * ``IAR: Select Compiler``
    * ``IAR: Select Project``
    * ``IAR: Select Configuration``

* Configure an ``IAR - build`` task using ``Tasks: Configure Task``
* Build your project

Installation
------------

``IAR-vsc`` can be installed simply through the extension marketplace from Visual Studio Code.

Requirements
____________
This extensions presumes that you installed the ``cpptools`` plugin by  *Microsoft*. Also a working ``IAR`` installation is needed.

Configuring
-----------

It is adviced to use the extension UI to configure the extension. The UI are statusbar items which will execute a command when clicking on them.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pluyckx/iar-vsc/master/Extension/images/readme/statusbar.png

You can also call the commands behind those buttons, see the ``contribution`` tab in the extension section of VS Code.

To configure your project, configure the following options:

* IAR workbench installation
* Compiler
* Project (ewp file)
* Configuration

Building
--------

When you execute the VSCode command ``Tasks: Configure Task`` two items are added which are generated by this extension:

* ``iar: IAR Build - template using selected workbench, project and config``
* ``iar: IAR Rebuild - template using selected workbench, project and config``

When selecting one of the two, a default task is generated which uses the workbench, project and configuration selected using the UI. When you select a different configuration, project or workbench, this script will use the newly selected items.

Deprecated Method: Create manually
__________________________________

In previous plugins there was a build command. However, from now on you can create a task because all necessary information is available through settings. You can use the following snippets to create a ``build`` and ``rebuild`` command. In alpha2 or beta1 will contain a ``problem matcher``. Use the following template as a starting point:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "version": "2.0.0",
        "tasks": [
            {
                "label": "IAR Build",
                "type": "process",
                "command": "${config:iarvsc.workbench}\\common\\bin\\IarBuild.exe",
                "args": [
                    "${config:iarvsc.ewp}",
                    "-make",
                    "${config:iarvsc.configuration}"
                ],
                "problemMatcher": [
                    "$iar-cc",
                    "$iar-linker"
                ],
                "group": {
                    "kind": "build",
                    "isDefault": true
                }
            },
            {
                "label": "IAR Rebuild",
                "type": "process",
                "command": "${config:iarvsc.workbench}\\common\\bin\\IarBuild.exe",
                "args": [
                    "${config:iarvsc.ewp}",
                    "-build",
                    "${config:iarvsc.configuration}"
                ],
                "problemMatcher": [
                    "$iar-cc",
                    "$iar-linker"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }

Debugging
---------

In v1.1.0 settings are added to configure a gdbserver and a gdb executable. The following data for
the `launch.json` file will use this configuration to start debugging. Currently this is only for
testing and is work in progress. The settings are nog yet automatically updated when selecting
different projects or confiugrations (even though the description of the settings mention this).

Open or create the ``launch.json`` file and place your cursor at the beginning of the configurations
array. Now press ``Ctrl + Space`` to activate autocompletion. You should see an item like
``IAR: Debug using gdb server``. If you select this, the configuration below is automatically
generated.

Some information about the used config parameters:

* ``iarvsc.debugger``: The path to the debugger to use. In case your debugger is on your ``PATH``
  environment you can just enter the debugger executable like ``arm-none-eabi-gdb.exe``, otherwise,
  use the absolute path to the debugger.
* ``iarvsc.gdbServer``: The path to the gdb server. If you are using a J-Link Segger, you will
  probably have to enter the full path like: ``C:\GNU Tools ARM Embedded\2018-q4-major\bin\arm-none-eabi-gdb.exe``.
  Keep in mind you have to escape the *backslashes* ``\`` in *json*.
* ``iarvsc.device``: The device you are want to *flash* and *debug*. Check your *debug server*
  documentation which values you can use here.
* ``iarvsc.outFile``: This field is not yet used in the current release, but it is mentioned here for
  completeness. You can use it, but keep in  mind the value you enter here can conflict in future
  releases.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "version": "0.2.0",
        "configurations": [
            {
                "name": "Debug GDBServer",
                "type": "cppdbg",
                "request": "launch",
                "program": "Path to the out file",
                "stopAtEntry": true,
                "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
                "externalConsole": true,
                "MIMode": "gdb",
                "miDebuggerPath": "${config:iarvsc.debugger}",
                "debugServerPath": "${config:iarvsc.gdbServer}",
                "debugServerArgs": "-if swd -singlerun -strict -endian little -speed auto -port 3333 -device ${config:iarvsc.device} -vd -strict -halt",
                "serverStarted": "Connected\\ to\\ target",
                "serverLaunchTimeout": 5000,
                "filterStderr": false,
                "filterStdout": true,
                "setupCommands": [
                    {
                        "text": "target remote localhost:3333"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor flash breakpoints = 1"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor flash download = 1"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor reset"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "load \\\"Path to the out file\\\""
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor reset"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }

Extension Settings
------------------

This extension contributes the following settings:

* ``iarvsc.iarInstallDirectories``: The rootfolders where all IAR workbenches are installed. By default this is ``C:\Program Files (x86)\Iar Systems``. The default settings contain also the non-x86 folder in case IAR will move to 64-bit installations.
* ``iarvsc.workbench``: The last selected workbench in this workspace.
* ``iarvsc.compiler``: The last selected compiler.
* ``iarvsc.ewp``: The last selected project file.
* ``iarvsc.configuration``: The last selected configuration.
* ``iarvsc.defines``: Some custom defines you can add to the define list. They folow the ``identifier=value`` structure. This list will contain all intrinsic compiler functions that are known by the author of this extension. If some are missing, create a GitHub issue.

An important note for the settings ``iarvsc.workbench``, ``iarvsc.compiler``, ``iarvsc.ewp``, ``iarvsc.configuration``:
Those values get overwritten by the extension when invalid values are defined or you select different values using the extension UI (the status bar items) or commands.

Advanced usage
______________

Using the settings it is possible to automate other IAR tasks. You can for instance automate flashing the device or running tests in the simulator using the generated cspy scripts. These scripts are available in the ``settings`` folder present in the same folder as you ``.ewp`` file.

Commit message:

Add tree view for changing extension config

docs/pages/user_guide.rst, after:

.. This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
   License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
   file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

User Guide
==========

Welcome to the ``IAR-vsc`` user guide!

This guide will take you through all the features the ``IAR-vsc`` plugin provides to enhance your workflow with ``IAR`` using the power of Visual Studio Code.
If you just want to get going, take a look at the Quickstart below.

Quickstart
----------

* Configure the following items:

    * ``IAR: Select Workbench``
    * ``IAR: Select Compiler``
    * ``IAR: Select Project``
    * ``IAR: Select Configuration``

* Configure an ``IAR - build`` task using ``Tasks: Configure Task``
* Build your project

Installation
------------

``IAR-vsc`` can be installed simply through the extension marketplace from Visual Studio Code.

Requirements
____________
This extensions presumes that you installed the ``cpptools`` plugin by  *Microsoft*. Also a working ``IAR`` installation is needed.

Configuring
-----------

It is adviced to use the extension UI to configure the extension. The UI are statusbar items which will execute a command when clicking on them.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pluyckx/iar-vsc/master/Extension/images/readme/statusbar.png

You can also call the commands behind those buttons, see the ``contribution`` tab in the extension section of VS Code.
There is also a view in the explorer tab for changing these settings. The explorer view and status bar view are functionally equivalent,
so if you want you can hide one of them by right clicking on it.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pluyckx/iar-vsc/master/Extension/images/readme/treeview.png

To configure your project, configure the following options:

* IAR workbench installation
* Compiler
* Project (ewp file)
* Configuration

Building
--------

When you execute the VSCode command ``Tasks: Configure Task`` two items are added which are generated by this extension:

* ``iar: IAR Build - template using selected workbench, project and config``
* ``iar: IAR Rebuild - template using selected workbench, project and config``

When selecting one of the two, a default task is generated which uses the workbench, project and configuration selected using the UI. When you select a different configuration, project or workbench, this script will use the newly selected items.

Deprecated Method: Create manually
__________________________________

In previous plugins there was a build command. However, from now on you can create a task because all necessary information is available through settings. You can use the following snippets to create a ``build`` and ``rebuild`` command. In alpha2 or beta1 will contain a ``problem matcher``. Use the following template as a starting point:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "version": "2.0.0",
        "tasks": [
            {
                "label": "IAR Build",
                "type": "process",
                "command": "${config:iarvsc.workbench}\\common\\bin\\IarBuild.exe",
                "args": [
                    "${config:iarvsc.ewp}",
                    "-make",
                    "${config:iarvsc.configuration}"
                ],
                "problemMatcher": [
                    "$iar-cc",
                    "$iar-linker"
                ],
                "group": {
                    "kind": "build",
                    "isDefault": true
                }
            },
            {
                "label": "IAR Rebuild",
                "type": "process",
                "command": "${config:iarvsc.workbench}\\common\\bin\\IarBuild.exe",
                "args": [
                    "${config:iarvsc.ewp}",
                    "-build",
                    "${config:iarvsc.configuration}"
                ],
                "problemMatcher": [
                    "$iar-cc",
                    "$iar-linker"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }

Debugging
---------

In v1.1.0 settings are added to configure a gdbserver and a gdb executable. The following data for
the `launch.json` file will use this configuration to start debugging. Currently this is only for
testing and is work in progress. The settings are nog yet automatically updated when selecting
different projects or confiugrations (even though the description of the settings mention this).

Open or create the ``launch.json`` file and place your cursor at the beginning of the configurations
array. Now press ``Ctrl + Space`` to activate autocompletion. You should see an item like
``IAR: Debug using gdb server``. If you select this, the configuration below is automatically
generated.

Some information about the used config parameters:

* ``iarvsc.debugger``: The path to the debugger to use. In case your debugger is on your ``PATH``
  environment you can just enter the debugger executable like ``arm-none-eabi-gdb.exe``, otherwise,
  use the absolute path to the debugger.
* ``iarvsc.gdbServer``: The path to the gdb server. If you are using a J-Link Segger, you will
  probably have to enter the full path like: ``C:\GNU Tools ARM Embedded\2018-q4-major\bin\arm-none-eabi-gdb.exe``.
  Keep in mind you have to escape the *backslashes* ``\`` in *json*.
* ``iarvsc.device``: The device you are want to *flash* and *debug*. Check your *debug server*
  documentation which values you can use here.
* ``iarvsc.outFile``: This field is not yet used in the current release, but it is mentioned here for
  completeness. You can use it, but keep in  mind the value you enter here can conflict in future
  releases.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "version": "0.2.0",
        "configurations": [
            {
                "name": "Debug GDBServer",
                "type": "cppdbg",
                "request": "launch",
                "program": "Path to the out file",
                "stopAtEntry": true,
                "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
                "externalConsole": true,
                "MIMode": "gdb",
                "miDebuggerPath": "${config:iarvsc.debugger}",
                "debugServerPath": "${config:iarvsc.gdbServer}",
                "debugServerArgs": "-if swd -singlerun -strict -endian little -speed auto -port 3333 -device ${config:iarvsc.device} -vd -strict -halt",
                "serverStarted": "Connected\\ to\\ target",
                "serverLaunchTimeout": 5000,
                "filterStderr": false,
                "filterStdout": true,
                "setupCommands": [
                    {
                        "text": "target remote localhost:3333"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor flash breakpoints = 1"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor flash download = 1"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor reset"
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "load \\\"Path to the out file\\\""
                    },
                    {
                        "text": "monitor reset"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }

Extension Settings
------------------

This extension contributes the following settings:

* ``iarvsc.iarInstallDirectories``: The rootfolders where all IAR workbenches are installed. By default this is ``C:\Program Files (x86)\Iar Systems``. The default settings contain also the non-x86 folder in case IAR will move to 64-bit installations.
* ``iarvsc.workbench``: The last selected workbench in this workspace.
* ``iarvsc.compiler``: The last selected compiler.
* ``iarvsc.ewp``: The last selected project file.
* ``iarvsc.configuration``: The last selected configuration.
* ``iarvsc.defines``: Some custom defines you can add to the define list. They folow the ``identifier=value`` structure. This list will contain all intrinsic compiler functions that are known by the author of this extension. If some are missing, create a GitHub issue.

An important note for the settings ``iarvsc.workbench``, ``iarvsc.compiler``, ``iarvsc.ewp``, ``iarvsc.configuration``:
Those values get overwritten by the extension when invalid values are defined or you select different values using the extension UI (the status bar items) or commands.

Advanced usage
______________

Using the settings it is possible to automate other IAR tasks. You can for instance automate flashing the device or running tests in the simulator using the generated cspy scripts. These scripts are available in the ``settings`` folder present in the same folder as you ``.ewp`` file.
